---
published: false
title: Amma
layout: post
tags: [life]
categories: [posts]
---
Mother-in-law!! This relationship brings all different emotions and memories to most of daughter-in-laws. There are stereotypical beliefs about this relationship or personal anecdotes that weigh on the negatives more than positive. One day I was confused when I read messages on whatsapp with my girls group. They were talking about some MIL. After clarifying I learned MIL-FIL acronyms. My friends said because I do not live with my mother-in-law, I am lucky and I do not understand MIL. 

Even today talking to another friend, I touched the wood. The stories that she was narrating made me think of my amma. Amma is my mother-in-law. Marrying into a Mallu family, I got one amma with my own mummy. There was no need to create a new name for sasuji. We followed the same sambodhan as our partner. 
  
I want to dedicate this writing to my amma. She is one of the best lady I have met. She is hard working and warm. Whenever, I was at Naduvani (my husband’s house), she has treated me like her daughter. I do not remember a day that I have been awake before her. During my last visit, Amma woke up at 6 in the morning to clean the big yard while I continued sleeping sometime 7 and sometime 8. Many days I get tea in my hands in the morning with warm breakfast of puttu, idli, dosa with delicious chamandis (chutneys).

Never has she directed me to what to wear or what to cook. I am a pure vegetarian (Jain) whereas they are Kshatriya. Non-vegetarian food has been the most favorite for my husband. Yet, when we decided to marry, I had told him that I will not touch it or cook it. She has never commented on our way of eating. Someone in his house did tell me that meen (fish) is Kannan’s favorite and I should learn how to cook it. But never such a word from my amma. She respects my way of life just as she knows that her son also has his way of life. 

In fact, on the contrary, she is always there to support me. She along with my sister-in-law, have always supported me. Kannan might say that this is the power of matriarchal system where woman is more important than man. I would say, I am lucky to have loving in-laws who have always accepted me the way I am. Have trusted my decisions and have allowed Kannan and me to make our own family and life. 

I am remembering you amme with your smiley face! I hope to live with you and learn from you about Naduvani culture, Mallu culture and share my Gujju culture with you all. 

You know that if I am worried or in conflicts, I write to you on gmail or facebook (Yes, my amma is updated with her Internet skills :)). You have always listened to me and provided me positivity. 

Thank you so much!! Never will I use ‘MIL’ word for you because you are my amma.
