---
published: true
title: That love which we thought was ours…
layout: post
tags: [life]
categories: [posts]
---

## That love which we thought was ours…

That love which we thought was ours, forever, in a moment took to a different direction in life and left us imagining. Yes, I am talking about that love which came and left, a brief love, or the notion which we thought was love but it was instead infatuation, attraction or just one-sided. There is something about these types of love. It leaves us to imagine, “what if….”.

I finished reading the book ‘The Palace of Illusion’ by Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni which narrates Mahabharata from the perspective of Panchali. In the whole book what is striking is Panchali’s inner feelings for Karna. Her whole life Panchali has been shown to think what if she had chosen Karna at her Swayamwar! What does Karna think of her? Even at her death, she was thinking of Karna!!

That struck me with many similar stories of people I have come across. Several of us have experienced love in our life, fortunately. Some of those have been mutual and have formed the marital bond or partnership. However, many times we have closed those chapters in life due to reasons within and beyond our controls. Almost surprisingly, it has left similar imaginative longing in our mind, like Panchali, that we are caught manipulating in our deep inner mind. Some of us see that moment, the moment that changed the course of love, as a regret while some resent it, some believes it to be destiny and some just think of it as moments of our immature past.

Many times I have observed that a few people let themselves get stuck in that moment. Or should I say doesn’t know how to let it go and move further? They believe that their happiness has gone, a part of them has gone, with that moment. Additionally, the romantic ideologies don’t help in such situations. Romantic notions in literature, Bollywood movies let us believe that heartbreak to be permanent. I am not saying that heartbreak doesn’t leave a mark on us, it does, it always does but we learn to let it go. Those who struggle to let that go also fails to see others who are willing to love them fresh. A new love chapter. There is huge hesitation. Feels like you are cheating the previous chapter of your love life if you begin new. Or there is a fear, what if I will be hurt again?

I, not an expert in love philosophy, but as a fellow person who believes in love wants to urge you today to let it go. Open your heart’s door and let it refilled with fresh love. Allow feeling yourself and I promise those moments would come again. If you need seek help, talk your inner deep thoughts with someone, jot it down in a diary. You are allowed to imagine what if that moment hadn’t happened when you were left heartbroken, you are allowed to imagine a future that never was yours, however, if you will allow yourself to heal you will also connect with reality and you will also see that someone else loves you immensely today and this moment is currently shaping your life with them. A second chance is worth a try. Cheers 🙂

Originally published at [poise7](http://blog.poise7.com/that-love-which-we-thought-was-ours/).
